# Tuples
- Tuples are used to store multiple items in a single variable.

- Tuple is one of 4 built-in data types in Python used to store collections of data, the other 3 are List, Set, and Dictionary, all with different qualities and usage.

- A tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable.

- Tuples are written with round brackets.
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
print(thistuple)
```
### Tuple Items
- Tuple items are ordered, unchangeable, and allow duplicate values.

- Tuple items are indexed, the first item has index [0], the second item has index [1] etc.

### Ordered
- When we say that tuples are ordered, it means that the items have a defined order, and that order will not change.

### Unchangeable
- Tuples are unchangeable, meaning that we cannot change, add or remove items after the tuple has been created.
### Allow Duplicates
- Since tuples are indexed, they can have items with the same value:
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry", "apple", "cherry")
print(thistuple)
```
### Tuple Length
- To determine how many items a tuple has, use the len() function:
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
print(len(thistuple))
```
### Create Tuple With One Item

- To create a tuple with only one item, you have to add a comma after the item, otherwise Python will not recognize it as a tuple.
```
thistuple = ("apple",)
print(type(thistuple))

#NOT a tuple

thistuple = ("apple")
print(type(thistuple))
```
### Tuple Items - Data Types
```
tuple1 = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
tuple2 = (1, 5, 7, 9, 3)
tuple3 = (True, False, False)
```
- A tuple can contain different data types:
```
tuple1 = ("abc", 34, True, 40, "male")
```
### type()
- From Python's perspective, tuples are defined as objects with the data type 'tuple':
```
<class 'tuple'>
mytuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
print(type(mytuple))

```
### The tuple() Constructor
- It is also possible to use the tuple() constructor to make a tuple.
```
thistuple = tuple(("apple", "banana", "cherry")) # note the double round-brackets
print(thistuple)
```
## Access Tuple Items
- You can access tuple items by referring to the index number, inside square brackets:
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
print(thistuple[1])
```
### Negative Indexing
- Negative indexing means start from the end.

- -1 refers to the last item, -2 refers to the second last item etc.

```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
print(thistuple[-1])
```
### Range of Indexes
- You can specify a range of indexes by specifying where to start and where to end the range.

- When specifying a range, the return value will be a new tuple with the specified items.
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry", "orange", "kiwi", "melon", "mango")
print(thistuple[2:5])
```
- This example returns the items from the beginning to, but NOT included, "kiwi":
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry", "orange", "kiwi", "melon", "mango")
print(thistuple[:4])
```
- By leaving out the end value, the range will go on to the end of the tuple:
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry", "orange", "kiwi", "melon", "mango")
print(thistuple[2:])
```
### Range of Negative Indexes
- Specify negative indexes if you want to start the search from the end of the tuple:
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry", "orange", "kiwi", "melon", "mango")
print(thistuple[-4:-1])
```
## Update Tuples
### Change Tuple Values
- Once a tuple is created, you cannot change its values. Tuples are unchangeable, or immutable as it also is called.

- But there is a workaround. You can convert the tuple into a list, change the list, and convert the list back into a tuple.
```
x = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
y = list(x)
y[1] = "kiwi"
x = tuple(y)

print(x)
```
### Add Items
- Since tuples are immutable, they do not have a built-in append() method, but there are other ways to add items to a tuple.

#### 1. Convert into a list: Just like the workaround for changing a tuple, you can convert it into a list, add your item(s), and convert it back into a tuple.
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
y = list(thistuple)
y.append("orange")
thistuple = tuple(y)
```
#### 2. Add tuple to a tuple. You are allowed to add tuples to tuples, so if you want to add one item, (or many), create a new tuple with the item(s), and add it to the existing tuple:
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
y = ("orange",)
thistuple += y

print(thistuple)
```
### Remove Items
- Tuples are unchangeable, so you cannot remove items from it, but you can use the same workaround as we used for changing and adding tuple items:
```
thistuple = ("apple", "banana", "cherry")
y = list(thistuple)
y.remove("apple")
thistuple = tuple(y)
```