# Variables
- Python has no command for declaring a variable.

- A variable is created the moment you first assign a value to it.

```
x = 5
y = "John"
print(x)
print(y)
```

- Variables do not need to be declared with any particular type, and can even change type after they have been set.

```
x = 4       # x is of type int
x = "Sally" # x is now of type str
print(x)
```

### Casting
```
x = str(3)    # x will be '3'
y = int(3)    # y will be 3
z = float(3)  # z will be 3.0
```
### Types
```
x = 5
y = "John"
print(type(x))
print(type(y))
```
### Single or Double Quotes
- String variables can be declared either by using single or double quotes:
```
x = "John"
# is the same as
x = 'John'
```
### Case-Sensitive
```
a = 4
A = "Sally"
#A will not overwrite a
```

# Variable Names

- A variable can have a short name (like x and y) or a more descriptive name (age, carname, total_volume).

- Rules for Python variables:
	- A variable name must start with a letter or the underscore character
	- A variable name cannot start with a number
	- A variable name can only contain alpha-numeric characters and underscores (A-z, 0-9, and _ )
	- Variable names are case-sensitive (age, Age and AGE are three different variables)
	- A variable name cannot be any of the Python keywords.
	
```
myvar = "John"
my_var = "John"
_my_var = "John"
myVar = "John"
MYVAR = "John"
myvar2 = "John"
```

## Multi Words Variable Names

### Camel Case
```
myVariableName = "John"
```
### Pascal Case
```
MyVariableName = "John"
```
### Snake Case
```
my_variable_name = "John"
```

# Assign Multiple Values
## Many Values to Multiple Variables
```
x, y, z = "Orange", "Banana", "Cherry"
print(x)
print(y)
print(z)
```
## One Value to Multiple Variables
```
x = y = z = "Orange"
print(x)
print(y)
print(z)
```
## Unpack a Collection
```
fruits = ["apple", "banana", "cherry"]
x, y, z = fruits
print(x)
print(y)
print(z)
```

# Output Variables
- The Python print() function is often used to output variables.

```
x = "Python is awesome"
print(x)
```
- In the print() function, you output multiple variables, separated by a comma:

```
x = "Python"
y = "is"
z = "awesome"
print(x, y, z)
```
- You can also use the + operator to output multiple variables:

```
x = "Python "
y = "is "
z = "awesome"
print(x + y + z)
```
- For numbers, the + character works as a mathematical operator:

```
x = 5
y = 10
print(x + y)
```
- In the print() function, when you try to combine a string and a number with the + operator, Python will give you an error:

``` 
x = 5
y = "John"
print(x + y)

=> 

x = 5
y = "John"
print(x, y)
```

# Global Variables

- Variables that are created outside of a function (as in all of the examples in the previous pages) are known as global variables.

- Global variables can be used by everyone, both inside of functions and outside.

```
x = "awesome"

def myfunc():
  print("Python is " + x)

myfunc()
```

### The global Keyword
- Normally, when you create a variable inside a function, that variable is local, and can only be used inside that function.

- To create a global variable inside a function, you can use the global keyword.

```
def myfunc():
  global x
  x = "fantastic"

myfunc()

print("Python is " + x)
```
- Also, use the global keyword if you want to change a global variable inside a function.

```
x = "awesome"

def myfunc():
  global x
  x = "fantastic"

myfunc()

print("Python is " + x)
```